foreign let's just look at this like a
patient on the table
what are the symptoms and then what's
the next step in treatment
and so you know solving problems like
that and not worrying about like well
whose fault is something
um I think is is just a really good way
to keep the shame from cropping up in
people and then they can stay much more
in in the problem solving mode
welcome to the art of accomplishment
where we explore how deepening
connection with ourselves and others
leads to creating the life we want with
enjoyment and ease foreign
everybody welcome back today I'm
speaking with Jamie huado Jamie is the
CTO of
[Music]
okay I'm gonna do that one more
time no no keep it keep that in
okay we're keeping it um yeah uh Jamie
is the CTO of cavnew previously you were
at Apple you were at waymo you worked on
the Mars Curiosity Rover and now you're
working on autonomous driving yeah it's
been about a decade of working in
autonomous driving and really trying to
realize my passion of making Mobility
available to everybody no matter if they
can drive or not nice in our pre-call
just now before it started and
completely botched that intro uh you
were starting to tell me about something
something that you've learned through
your career through all of these
different businesses and something that
really just applies to your life in
general can you tell us what that is
yeah I'm struggling with the words a
little bit on it
um I don't like the word selfish but I'm
going to use it for a minute because I
think it feels right and that is that
it's it's actually okay and important to
be selfish to to really go into yourself
and own your wants and speak your truth
and think about what you need to be
successful because that'll help
everybody else be successful and I think
especially as a woman you know we're
really kind of ingrained to think about
um making sure everybody else is okay
making sure our kids are okay our spouse
is okay our family members are okay our
employees are okay we end up in this
cycle of like trying to help and make
sure everybody else is okay and we're
just empty and what I actually realized
about two years ago was
um
at work and I was like they're paying me
because they want me to be successful
and maybe I should think pretty hard
about like what are the systems I need
to be successful and how do I set this
up in a way that works for me
um so that's what I'd love to talk about
today yeah great how did this end up
becoming a thing for you what was what
was your life like what were the factors
that led up to this recognition just
exhausted right like
I'm very high EQ and so I can look at
people and I can usually read them and
and so when you're high EQ and you're
working on like trying to make everybody
okay it's just very emotionally
exhausted so I had just nothing left in
my cup
you know I think back and my son my
oldest is now 11 but when he was nine
months old
I was driving to a yoga class and it was
like the first time I left the house
without the baby nine months old I just
I sat in the car in the parking lot just
crying because I was like I don't even
know how to find time to take a shower
and like my husband took the baby and
and I could go to this yoga class I just
had nothing in me to even walk into this
class and and start working out again
that's when the seeds started being
planted on like how can I be the mom I
want to be when it's all about like
making this nine-month-old human not die
today
um and I think you know looking back
what I should have done has been like
hey honey or call my sister you know ask
for friends send them to daycare for a
few hours but um I just was putting it
all on myself that that I needed to put
everything from me into him
um which ended up with you know me being
a crying mess in a parking lot I'm
probably not showing up happy and ready
to play on the floor when the baby was
ready so yeah that's where it started
yeah it sounds like that would be really
easy like an easy thing to get yourself
caught up into because it's it's your
baby you care about your baby you want
your baby not to die when you look away
for 15 minutes right and it would be
very easy to think that you know it's
also your baby and your responsibility
and you know your sister didn't have
your baby or your friends didn't have
your baby it's not their job to think
that you have to take it all on yourself
and not even ask
makes it that you're not able to take as
much as good care of the baby you know
because you're not taking care of
yourself exactly like thinking very
critically about
how do I take care of me so that I can
take care of whatever else it is that's
my responsibility whether it's at home
or at work
you know this started manifesting at
work when um
I was coached very early on I became a
people manager when I was at the Google
self-driving car program
and I was coached very early on that
great managers changed their style for
every employee and they kind of meet
their employee where they are and then
work their style to to kind of speak to
that that person and I was like great
I'm going to be so good at this and so I
started What I Call Now chameleon
leadership where I just I'd show up with
every person differently but that got
this feedback at Apple uh when I was
there and somebody was like it looks
like you're just so inconsistent like
people are very uncertain about how they
need to show up for you because you're
different at every room you're in and I
actually think one of the Arts about
being a leader is that people kind of
know and they can Channel you
um so that you don't have to be in every
room and every decision
and so this thing I was doing that I
thought was so good of you know taking
care of everybody else and and meeting
their needs and not being clear about my
wants and what I needed was actually
showing up as a thing that made people
fearful and kind of Uncertain how um to
interact with me yeah it sounds like
there's a Nuance to be found there
between
meeting people where they are
and leaving yourself to be where they
are with them and not actually being
present and not being
not showing up in the relationship in
your truth yeah exactly and Joe talks
about this a lot as like you can hold
space for people but you have to stay in
yourself and you have to stay centered
in your Knowing Your Truth your wants
um and I think I was just going
completely into the other person and
trying to you know feed them what they
needed and it actually wasn't working
for anybody so I made some pretty big
changes how did that relate to what
you're describing as uh you didn't even
want to use the word but whatever it
attached attaches to selfish yeah you
know I mean to me it at first it was
like well that's just selfish right like
a leader that comes in and or you know a
a parent that comes in and is like no
I'm gonna go off and play golf today or
my meetings are creative meetings in the
morning because that's when I'm creative
and they're um you know one-on-ones in
the afternoon because that's when I'm
ready to just click through those kind
of personal conversations and at first I
was like well that's a very selfish
thing to do and then I started looking
at leaders that I really respect and
kind of how they run their schedules
they run their days how they set up the
systems and the processes that that make
them them work and I realized that every
leader does it differently and I was
like well that's interesting
and then I started looking at it and
it's like oh
they're being paid to be successful
they're setting up systems that make
themselves successful that's what
they're expecting me to do too and
everybody's kind of sitting around
waiting and going like you're the leader
why don't you like tell us what you want
it's not actually selfish but it feels
like it in the moment when you're just
like this is what I want this is what I
need and we're going to do it this way
what do you think taught you that
visceral feeling of
uh shame or whatever whatever it is that
comes up when you feel that fear of
being selfish or you feel that taking
care of yourself is
is self-centered or selfish
where do you think that comes from yeah
I I think some of it is gender for me at
least you know growing up in a
small community
um where
the the matriarchs of the family were
just they're the superheroes they're
making dinner on the table they're
throwing these amazing birthday parties
they're showing up at all the kids
events the kids are all well dressed and
their hair is combed and la la la right
and it's like I just grew up in this
community where the observation was
the matriarchs are pouring everything
into their families and the success of
the family is the success of the
matriarch and I never really peeled back
the curtain to understand like what goes
on at home inside the four walls to see
if that's actually you know what's going
on I could say in my own home my mother
was exhausted
um she worked a full-time job she took
care of four kids my dad was out of the
house a lot with his work and my mom did
everything and so I think I just
kind of by example absorbed that that
was the expectation and I never saw my
mom be like I need a break or I'm going
out like even when she'd go
um
hang out with her friends she'd always
have a kid or two in tow
um so she never took kind of that time
for herself so I never saw it modeled
so for me it was about
taking the realization and realizing
that
I want a bigger and more joyful life
and that it will actually probably lead
to
more clarity and actually drop the fear
level in work and will enable me to show
up the way I want to show up so tell me
a little bit more about how this started
to land in you and how the how the
transformation occurred you know this is
gonna sound weird but I was I was on a
business trip
um and we were on the plane and the the
flight attendant does their thing right
where they're like put the oxygen if
you're traveling with a small child put
the oxygen mask on yourself before
putting it on the small child
and I was like I need an oxygen mask for
myself first and like it was just this
deep knowing from within me like where's
my own oxygen mask
um and so I started just thinking about
that I started studying how leaders work
Joe and I were doing a lot of work at
the time about Speak Your Truth own your
truth and I was working for a leader
at the time who's you know a very
dominant leader someone who would walk
in the room and just like scream at
everybody if it wasn't exactly the way
they wanted it and I was working with
Joe and I'm like I don't know how to
deal with this leader like everything I
try to do doesn't please them and Joe's
like why don't you just show up and do
what you want to do and like ignore the
leader and so I was like okay well
that's an interesting experiment
and so I walked into a room one day and
this leader had been yelling at me for
like six months yelling at me in front
of the team behind the team one-on-one
it didn't matter
um and it wasn't that he was mad at me
it was just like he was so frustrated if
everything wasn't exactly the way they
wanted it and so I was like
they started yelling and I said I can
tell you're scared and it was just so
clear to me that the the yelling was
actually out of fear of not being
successful and so I just said I can tell
you're really scared
and I said I just want you to know I
don't respond to yelling I actually
become less creative and less able to
help you solve the problem
and then I just sat there
and I didn't try to fix them I didn't
try to make it okay I just sat there
and he looked at me
and then he smiled
and he leaned forward and he's like
great let's start solving the problem
wow and it was just like this total 180
in our relationship and I was like oh
maybe I should just do what I want
so that was a big piece of it Joe had
also come in and worked with my team
and he came to me and he said Jamie I
just want you to know I see a lot of
fear and uncertainty in your team
and
um so you know we started unpacking that
and thinking about where that came from
and I think again that was you know a
lot of just they couldn't Channel me and
my thought process and my decisions
because I was so focused on managing
each of them to the way they wanted to
be managed that there wasn't a ability
to be like no she's always like this
she's just gonna say this so every
single meeting they were like well is
she going to want this today or that is
this going to be right or is it going to
be wrong you know and that sucks when
you're an employee yeah it's like
they're spending a lot of time
calculating how you're going to respond
and they don't have a consistent model
for understanding it because you're not
showing consistency and you're showing
some mirror of how they are to be with
them in the way that you see them as
being and it's not really how you
actually want to show up and that
decreases trust people people are just
unable to trust what they can bring to
you and how and how you're going to
respond to it exactly and so I was like
well it would actually be far better to
be like my boss who's just screaming at
me all the time because that's very
consistent I know exactly what I'm gonna
get
um and I didn't want to be that leader
but I did make a bunch of changes kind
of all at once I changed the way I ran
my schedule I set it up to be
you know I like to do like my deep
thinking problem solving in the morning
I like all my one-on-ones on one day
whatever they are just structural kind
of things for a day and so I um had my
assistant help me get all of that lined
up
um and I made sure that there was 50
white space on my calendar at the
beginning of the week so that I had time
to work on the problems that I wanted to
do because like that's just what I need
change the meeting structure changed how
we communicated as a team
and then I pulled the whole team
together and I said look
this is a team that and this is right as
we were going into covid
um I was like this is a team that's you
know kind of newly forming and we're not
cohesive
um and I just showed up super vulnerably
and like the way I wanted to show up
and not worrying about what they were
gonna think and just said like we we've
really got some work to do on team
culture and team cohesion and so we went
through a series of workshops over about
three months all virtual because it was
covid and uh came out with a series of
commitments and how we wanted to work
and the principles that we had for a
team
and I just watched this team go from
like they couldn't even set goals and
agree to anything and you know
completely fearful to a virtual team
that they were collaborating with each
other they were working to solve
problems they were bringing me decisions
um and not just like squabbling about
things anymore they were setting goals
and hitting their goals
and so it was like all I had to do was
show up vulnerably and be like I don't
have confidence that this is a team that
can win and we have a lot of work to do
and I need you in it with me
um and then we did a bunch of work
together and come out the other side and
it was just such a great transformation
that I saw with them too it sounds like
when you went through this process of
just reimagining the way that you show
up how do I show up the way that I want
to how do I show up to work the way that
makes me successful not only did you
succeed in restructuring that the work
environment for yourself but it also
permissioned it for others who who work
for you and also modeled it for for your
manager at that time yeah that sounds
like a really vulnerable thing to say to
somebody who's yelling at you who is
superior to you in the organization to
say oh I see that you're scared right
but it just it was so clear to me it was
like oh this is what my kid does when
he's scared
and it's like I bet we all do that and
so I just it's like it came out of me I
was there the filter was gone the filter
of like how's he going to respond to
this and you know how I don't know maybe
you don't do it but
um you start playing chess in your head
about if I say this then they're gonna
do that or they're gonna feel that and
like that chess game starts happening
before DHS yeah yes I hate it I hate it
and so it was like the first time in a
long time that I just shut the chess
game off and was like I'm not gonna do
that I'm just gonna go with the first
thing that came in my head and the first
thing that came in my head was
he's scared I see you're scared and then
the second thing that came in my head
was we have a problem to solve but I
can't do it with you yelling at me and
so I said that
yeah the 40 chests that's Kryptonite for
me I hate it I'm bad at it I'm bad at
chess so yeah so I want to speak to some
of the some of the fear that would hold
us back the fear of the shame that would
hold us back from from taking these
steps and so I'm imagining sort of an
extreme Edge case here where you're with
your child you've been with your child
all day you need space you need
something and nobody's there to provide
it for you and maybe you're hard on
yourself for not having asked so no
one's around and your first impulse is
just to get up and walk out
and go for a walk and leave them alone
uh what would make it that you wouldn't
do that or like well when it's a nine
month old baby you shouldn't do that
probably exactly so I guess my question
here is that there's there's times where
your impulse
you you you're just telling me a number
of stories about how you trusted that
impulse and you just did it and wow
things transformed and changed around
you and I think the thing that holds us
back from trusting our impulse is that
we believe that if we actually follow
that impulse everything's going to fall
apart we'll be attacked a baby's gonna
die but it's something in a light socket
so tell me a little bit about how
how that has shifted for you how how
your fear of the consequences
of
taking care of yourself and getting what
you need and how it shifted the way that
you go about it uh to maybe dispel the
notion that you would
start acting in ways that are that are
damaging to your child or to yourself I
started with a lot of playing the 4D
chess
ahead of the thing right so like okay I
guarantee you that I'm going to be in a
meeting and and I'm gonna get yelled at
probably this person is going to yell at
me tomorrow and so then I started
playing the 4D chess and it's like well
if I said this what's the worst thing
that can happen and kind of go through
that exercise right
um the stoics do this all the time they
imagine they say to imagine your death
and then imagine past your death what
happens you know the hour after you died
and what happens
um the day after you died and what
happens the week the month the year the
decade
um and so you you become just totally
okay with death as part of this process
that the stoics lay out and I started
doing that with scenarios that I was
worried about and saying like Okay well
if I said screw you you can't yell at me
what's the worst thing that could happen
if I got up and walked out what's the
worst thing that could happen
um if I uh sat there and started crying
what's the worst thing that could happen
right and like just try a whole bunch of
different things and feel like what
feels right and resonates in me and am I
okay with those consequences and in all
cases by the way it worked the worst
thing that can happen is you get fired
and it's like okay well I have you know
three recruiters calling me right now
and you know whatever it is
I'm probably okay with getting fired
um and so for me it was it was thinking
through that a lot and realizing that
the consequences weren't as big and
scary as I thought they could be and
really imagining and experiencing them
sitting in that like really imagine and
feel yourself getting fired
and then what happens the day after you
got fired and what happens the week
after you got fired and the month after
you got fired and like
I got to a point where I was okay with
it and then like I felt very free at
work because the worst thing that could
ever happen is I got fired
um and that would be okay you know at
home
I started doing similar things where
it's like well what's the worst thing
that can happen
um
if I leave you know now now my kids are
eight and eleven if if I leave and go
for a walk for half an hour what's the
worst thing that can happen it's like
well they could get in a fight okay and
so I think through kind of all of those
things and sometimes I set up
preventative measures where it's like
look I need some me time I'm gonna I'm
go for a walk
um and I'll be back and here's an
activity for you and here's an activity
for you and now I'm out and sometimes
it's like I'm gonna go for a walk and
we're all going to the park so you can
play at the park while I walk around the
playground
um and so I try different things like
that to realize like what do I need and
how do I set it up in a way where people
are safe and that's it yeah it sounds
like a major difference in what you had
just been describing about playing the
4D chess in advance which is a lot like
rehearsing a conversation yeah versus
sort of the stoic
stoic practice of seeing through your
death which you know ultimately
everything seems to like land in that if
I lose my job then I won't be able to
take care of myself and I'll die alone
or miserable and I'll be disrespected
and everything it all seems to finally
end in that but we're never we're often
just not willing to to Vision that far
into our future and see and actually
test the hypothesis in our in our
simulation and so I think the major
distinction here is that often people
rehearse a conversation so that they can
play the chess game and avoid the
consequence they're
trying not to get like being yelled at
rather than just
seeing all the possible moves on the
table that they could play and then all
the counter moves they could play to all
the possible moves that are played you
know back at them and just accepting the
entire thing and then showing up and
being like
I'm just going to be me because that's
what feels better in my system
now and in the long term and I also
trust that that's going to lead to
better outcomes for me and everyone
around me
that might even include that I'm fired
and then I go to a different job where
I'm not being yelled at or I get a week
off in the summer to hang out with my
kids yeah or a month while I look for a
job or or your kids learn to resolve
conflict with Mom not around right so
I'm also curious now how how has you
know
the to whatever extent of helicopter
parenting you have you know I think
all parents have some level of am I am I
over parenting am I under parenting am I
over how has that shifted as you've gone
through this transformation of taking
care of your needs and putting on your
own oxygen mask
and seeing through the negative
consequences that you don't want a thing
that I have done is I have tried to
empower my kids now
um so like there's a checklist on the
fridge that's these are the things you
need to get done today and they're
responsible for getting it done and then
you know at about six o'clock after
we've had dinner I'm like is your
checklist done
and if it's done then great you can have
free time you can do what you want if
not then you know that you need to go
get that stuff done
and so that's just an example of where
I've totally pulled out because I don't
want to micromanage I even told him that
I said look I don't want to micromanage
I find it really stressful I don't want
to get in an argument with you about if
you need to have a shower for the second
time this entire week or not like you
need to be clean and so it's just on the
checklist you follow the checklist and
that's brought me more space so that I
don't have to be like mad and in these
negotiations I hate negotiating with my
children
um but at the same time it's also given
them empowerment they can decide what
order they do it in and like ha you know
what time they're gonna do it as long as
it's done by you know six o'clock
otherwise they don't get free time and
that's just brought a lot more joy and
peace into the household
it's also
um made me much more connected to them
and them more connected to me
and because the interactions we have
aren't about negotiating over if you
should bathe for the second time this
week but is much more about
um like hey great job in school today I
was looking at your homework and I'm so
impressed with how well you did at your
math test and so we're just we're
connecting on things that that feel much
more meaningful
um and less on things that are
um
you know just the minutia of being in a
family together and getting chores done
and it sounds like from what you were
saying earlier
there's a similar like letting go of
micromanagement in your in your team at
work and
like you you recognize that those who
hired you want you to be doing what you
need to be successful and meet the goals
and meet the metrics
and be an active and empowered part of
how you work and then that just trickles
right on down to those in your team
that's right I mean even
even now
um
you know we're hiring a bunch of people
we're an early stage startup and I
interview everybody that's coming on the
team
but very rarely do I veto
um like I've done it twice and all of
the people that we've interviewed
because I'm much more here to
Empower you as the hiring manager to
make your own decisions and I'm just
going to give you perspective on here's
some things I think are going to be
important as they on board here's some
challenges you may have with them as
you're managing them whatever whatever
the kind of insights are that I see but
they'll sit there and and at first it
was very odd for them I think because
they would look at me and they'd be like
well should we hire this person or not
you interviewed them you're the boss and
I'm like I'm not the hiring manager I'm
not deciding here's what I see
um and just really pushing that
empowerment to my team is really
important to me where do you see as your
your next Edge I mean one of the things
that we talk about a lot is that we you
know this this process of self-discovery
is a corkscrew you you swing around one
time and you find
you find all these ways that you've been
holding yourself back and limiting
yourself and then you through deeper
awareness
you transform and you change the way
that you show up in the world and then
you swing back around the corkscrew and
it's the same thing again but just on
some fractal more subtle layer and level
so I'm curious for you what is
what is the version of this that's most
alive for you as an edge today yeah it's
a great question
um right now
um the thing I work on a lot is
um
I can't save people and I have this
tendency to be like you're empowered you
do you but then like when when they're
about to fail I'm like oh let me help
you let me catch you and and so now the
thing I'm working on is like no like
maybe they're not going to fail and I'm
wrong maybe the failure is the learning
that they need or maybe like them being
weak in that role is actually what's
going to strengthen the team by having
the team see it and come around
um and so there's a lot more of like me
pulling back and I'm working on it I'm
not perfect at it right now but it's
very top of Mind of me pulling back and
being like I see where this is going I
think it's going to be a problem but I
need to let
the person who is responsible and
empowered I need to really mean that and
let them kind of go and and Forge their
own path
um
and I think at I've done it right a few
times and wrong a few times lately
um and when it's done right what I see
is
um
the team is stronger yeah so something
something that I've learned on this on
this same kind of path uh you know being
a classic savior myself
is that when I'm when I'm on the path
I'm often kind of vacillating between
either over controlling and trying to
save them from the inevitable failure
that I see them walking into whether or
not I'm actually correct about that or
I'm just hands off and I'm just like
okay they're just gonna learn on their
own and then I miss opportunities to
give them really clear
you know something that I see that might
be difficult for them to hear and be to
be able to deliver it lovingly and
without fear and without like talking
down to them
and that's that's an edge that I've
always
you know like like again it's a fractal
you just continue to deepen into the
subtlety keep hitting that bump yeah
yeah because you can take it too far the
other way which is like you do you good
luck and that's not helpful either and
so it's finding like you said that that
kind of sweet spot and that's the thing
I'm working on now yeah and you can get
to that point where you're just so hands
off and you're like why is my team
continuing to fail I'm letting them be
empowered and do their thing well
they're empowered it's up to them no
it's not you're the leader like
you know I I always say the winds are
yours the failures are ours yeah I think
there's another phrase that I really
enjoy which is it's not your what if
it's not your fault it's your
responsibility and as a leader when I
when I start to think of something might
that might be my fault whether it is me
or somebody that I'm leading and you
know a decision that I could have been a
part of and steered or brought
reflection to if I'm afraid of fault uh
on some level then that creates a threat
in my system and then I Come From Fear
which leads me to either over control or
avoid
but if it's just responsibility
like responsibility like my own
self-responsibility not a outwardly
imposed responsibility that I should do
something but just
you know I'm responsible for the
outcomes of my life
and you know if I'm running a business
and I see things going on
you know if if I want to if I want that
to be addressed it's my responsibility
to speak up but it's not my fault if
something goes wrong it's it's
fault meaning I don't have to shame
myself for it I don't have to love
myself on your less because I allowed
something to occur that I could have
spoken to and didn't I think that's
right I think most of the times for me
when things go sideways and it it starts
with shame
um and it's like you know the voice in
the head turns on and it's like you
should have done blah
um and then the shame starts and then at
that point like you're not only trying
to manage the situation you're managing
yourself and you're not in connection
with anything and so I find that you
really gotta get back in into connection
with yourself I always try to tell the
team
um
the phrase I like is let's just look at
this like a patient on the table what
are the symptoms and then what's the
next step in treatment
um and so you know solving problems like
that and not worrying about like well
whose fault is something
um I think is is just a really good way
to keep the shame from from cropping up
in people
um and then they can stay much more in
in the problem solving mode yeah I could
imagine
uh uh an ER doc being the person who had
crashed into somebody rushing to the
hospital with them and then being the
person to work on them like
carrying the whole oh my god what have I
done right I better figure out how
effective is that going to be that
person just needs to
go through their process and then
somebody else who's not as like directly
attached to the situation maybe maybe
there's a a case where somebody would
actually be able to do the best possible
job because they feel
like a deep responsibility to themselves
to
show up to that situation be fully
present with it but to the extent that
they're hard on themselves about what
happened it wouldn't be very effective
that's right you know I think I think
we're all
um we show up better we solve problems
better we get to better Solutions when
the shame is is off and we're just
focused on like here's the thing I gotta
get this thing done I'm responsible for
getting this thing done
I think our businesses are better our
families are better our personal lives
are better for it yeah and it sounds
like not only for yourself but for for
your family and for those around you and
those who work with you
Which flies in the face of this you know
the impression that we are taught that
it's selfish yeah exactly like
you know I think it's not selfish I
think it's it's being in connection with
yourself
um for sure and owning what it is you
want and speaking your truth
um but I think it's setting up the the
conditions for success in whatever it is
that you're doing in that moment and
when you do that you're actually much
better to be around
um the things that you're delivering are
much better and so I don't know maybe
selfish is okay working title
[Laughter]
thank you so much Jamie I really enjoyed
this uh thank you it's so good to to see
you you yeah you too all right all right
take care thanks for listening to the
art of accomplishment if you enjoyed
what you heard today please subscribe
and rate US on your podcast app we'd
love your feedback so feel free to send
us questions or comments you can reach
out to us join our newsletter or check
out our courses at Art of
accomplishment.com
[Music]